you have an investment any particular
asset will do you keep your money in its
hoping that this will rise over time
then one day something changes and that
asset is taken away from you or its
value drops to zero these are the risks
that we take it's just salt in the wound
however when a group takes it from you
then makes a huge profit from it then
boasts about it you came here for the
truth today we are going to look at
various issues and want to begin with
northern rock the government has a moral
justification to pay billions of pounds
in compensation to people who lost money
when Northern Rock was nationalized at
the start of the credit crunch this is
very important to note because there is
a lot of talk about the fragility of the
banking system and we are not talking
about just the eurozone this goes for
the entire global financial system when
you nationalize a bank you put it under
your protection but ultimately what you
are doing is saying that the taxpayers
will have to foot the bill it was 10
years ago
that Northern Rock which had expanded
too fast and taken on too much mortgage
debts was forced to go to the Bank of
England for emergency financial
assistance they were the lender of last
resort in this case and they had to act
accordingly
and they were able to basically print up
some money and make this happen that's
what banks do when a banking is that
financial establishment gets into too
much debt the average person or the
individuals in the financial system all
gathered together they all have this
idea that this is OK that Keynesian
economics is OK and will not cause any
problems this here shows you that this
is unsustainable that too much debt does
cause a problem it might take a lot of
debt to get there but it's a fact there
have been bank runs before in history
and while this
and to be the first British bank in 150
years to experience a bank run it has
gone on in other cities as well other
countries as well you've seen this
taking place the long lines the civil
unrest everything else so what is going
to happen well in this case here when
the bank was subsequently nationalized
at least 160 thousand shareholders lost
their investments so I'll get into the
next article here before I start ranting
on about it
thousands of northern Northern Rock
shareholders were wiped out when the
bank was nationalized almost a decade
ago
they're renewing their campaign for
compensation arguing that the government
is set to make billions of pounds and
profit from this bailout this is what
these type of institutions do somebody
made the executive decision that the
Bank of England would have to step in
that the government would step in and
they would do whatever it takes to make
sure that the financial system doesn't
collapse and so they decided to
nationalize this Bank well the
shareholders didn't have a choice in the
matter
they basically were unfortunately
screwed over but that's as I said at the
beginning that's the risks we take we
shouldn't have this type of insurance on
our banks as far as I'm concerned
because individuals then are there
thinking that they are able to not have
to worry about what banks do and their
reserve requirements can drop lower and
lower and lower they're only a couple
percent and that's okay because there's
insurance but we should hold them
accountable if we see that the reserves
go below a hundred percent all of a
sudden we should start taking our money
out and that's the way it should be but
that's not the way most people think
about it they simply just leave their
money in there and say look the central
bank's gonna take care of me they are my
mommy they are my daddy the move comes
days before the ten anniversary of
northern rock which produced some of the
most memorable images of the financial
crisis customers cute outside his
branches to withdraw their money so
they're trying to get their money back
I'm saying that the way I look at it is
that as a shareholder you take a risk if
that stock were to go to zero you took a
risk you can't expect the government to
step in and help you out and that goes
for any asset the problem is that the
government and the financial
institutions already have so much power
within the system they all are already
manipulating it so if you were to just
say okay just pull everything out then
all of a sudden everything would crash
well you can't really do it in that way
you have to basically wean their control
off and let this happen in a natural way
wouldn't take that long but you can't
just necessarily end it all in a day
with the stroke of a pen so the what
what I see with this here is that the
fragility within the financial system is
present it hasn't left in fact it's
gotten a lot worse and this tells us the
lesson that too much debt does cause a
problem and your assets are a risk no
matter where they are as long as these
establishments have their hands all over
them so there's there's more here but I
think you know where I'm getting at
basically the much of the 37 billion was
rescued apparently the Treasury is able
to grab most of this back and they're
saying look they're making money
billions and billions off of this at the
same time the shareholders didn't get a
single time so now that's what's going
on anyway I just think it's interesting
to talk about bank runs to begin with
the feds collective record taxes through
August still run guess what a six
hundred and seventy three billion dollar
deficit that shouldn't surprise me I can
tenuously do this CNS news generally
covers this information but it is public
information of course but generally CNS
news every single month will write
articles like this and you'll see over
and over and over they collect a record
amount of taxes yet the deficits
increase ensure there are little blips
along the way and I say this every
single time but overall that's what's
happening more money comes in yet more
money leaves that's the way it works
let's move on we're talking about
volatility here with this particular
hedge fund manager optically volatility
is still very low but the fear is
increasing and he pulls up a chart and
it shows that in the months beyond the
30-day period measured by the VIX index
investors weren't expecting some violent
moves to come in the stock market
betting against the flare up since such
turmoil has been one of the
longest-running and most profitable
trades in recent financial history the
VIX has been persistently low now ever
since the financial crisis has been
dipping lower and lower and you can see
it generally over the past several years
anyway you'll see it that it's basically
at the very bottom this could change in
an instant not just because it's
historically low but also because of all
the issues that have been brought to
light just in the recent past so we have
to keep our eyes if you're into the
technicals on the VIX
VIX is key all right look at this now
there was one company here that was
blocked from actually being purchased I
thought it was interesting because it
was Chinese company and they blocked and
saying that's a potential US security
clearance problem they are putting could
put the nation at risk I think it's a
good thing
not not necessarily with this deal here
or with this trade at all I'm just
talking about this in general that the
government should have a say in
protecting the people wasn't wouldn't
that be a great thing that the
government would protect the people and
so if that's actually a real thing and
you know we we are told that they're
always trying to protect us and of
course that's usually not the case but
if it is good for once then I'm all for
it
that's the purpose of the government to
be there to protect our rights not to
you know you know I don't won't even go
there
but I think that this could be good I
haven't done enough research on to this
particular company so then right here
the Kaspersky antivirus they have
basically ordered to be removed from all
these government computers because of
the tensions obviously going on right
now they were worried about security
risks and everything else I just thought
that was interesting as well let's move
on here last but not least never let a
good crisis go to waste
everybody knows the Godfather himself
Rahm Emanuel ramps up his campaign
fundraising toward a possible third term
as he continues to rely on donors that
have received City Hall benefits oh he's
not the only one of course ranging from
contracts and zoning approvals to
appointments and personal endorsements
from the mayor that Chicago Tribune has
found so he collected three million
dollars in high-dollar contributions and
more than 2 million of it nearly 70% has
come from 83 donors who have benefited
from the actions of City Hall do you
live in this area because if you do you
can shake this gentleman's hand and
congratulate him for profiting off of
you that's the way this works people who
get into positions of power will
use it I'm sure whatever city whatever
city you live in whatever state or
province or region you live in this
exact same thing happens it happens
every single time if you found this
video informative please give me a
thumbs up don't forget to hit that
subscribe button as well and last but
not least if you found the video
informative I know you'll find my books
the money GPS and my newer release
global economic collapse even more
informative you can flip through these
books at Amazon they have a look inside
feature that will allow you to do that
the first book is about the for asked
asset classes and how to profit from
them I get into the historical as well
as the foundation and the newer book
takes on familiar concepts but I also
get into things like becoming
self-sufficient how to earn income and
so much more so if you check those out
at Amazon links are in the description
below
take care